1. You have a stack of coins in rows, and water drops. Each water drop can stack on top of coins until it overflows.
So for instance if you have the coins, you can fill up to 2 water drops. Write a program to figure out the total
number of drops you can fill in.
2. Find the longest increasing subsequence in a given array. (First assume that the subsequence should be
continuous and then the general case)
3. Code a function that takes as input a number (float) and precision (int). The function computes the square root of
number up to precision.
a. for example: sqrt(3, 0) = 1, sqrt(3, 1) = 1.7, sqrt(3, 2)= 1.73
4. Code Fibonacci. What is time complexity?
5. In a list of integers, find the biggest sub list with increasing numbers. The order shall stay the same but you can
skip some numbers.
a. Example: [1,2,2,3] shall return [1,2,3]; [1,2,6,3,2,4] shall return [1,2,3,4]
6. Find max size of sub-squares in a matrix (dynamic programming)
7. Given an array Arr[ ], you can switch the values of two adjacent elements and each element can be switched at
most once. How do you maximise the sum over the indices i of Arr[i]*(i+1)?
8. Given an array with positive and negative transaction values, find a sub-array to make the value positive.
9. Contiguous subarray of maximum sum within an array (give indices of the array and the maximum sum).
a. Given an array, how to design a program finding a subarray whose sum equals to 0.
10. Hypothesis: test a feature that matches up with data 47% of the time, is that significant, how would you test it?

11. Given two variables with similar mean squared errors, how would you test if they are accurate?
12. Have a string of parameters with open brackets. You are required to ensure all brackets are closed by inserting
additional brackets. Have to calculate the number of brackets to close all parentheses.
13. Dynamic programming question. Given a list of integers and definition of a parameter, k. k is the amount of times
you apply an operation to 1 element. Have to apply a sequence of operations and calculate the minimum sum to
apply a sequence of k.
14. Produce a function which two inputs: an integer k and a list of random integers of length n. the output should be
the number of distinct pairs such that one number in the pair + k equals the other.
a. You can use the same number twice (for instance use 1 to create the pair (1,1))
b. Example: the list [1,2] has three distinct pairs: (1,1), (1,2) and (2,2). (The same goes for [1,1,1,2]). If k = 1,
then only (1,2) satisfies the condition, so the output should be 1.

15. Given an array, code an algorithm to find a (contiguous) sub-array which has the maximum sum
a. What is overfitting?
b. What is Monte Carlo?
c. Discussion about statistical learning methods, their benefits, cons etc.
d. Questions about black Scholes and option pricing.
e. Questions about call/put options and hedged portfolio.
f. Discussion about bootstrapping and swap curve building
16. Given an array non-negative integers representing an elevation map, find the maximum amount of units of water
that can be trapped after raining.
17. Partition a list in 2 sublists, the first should be shorter and of greater sum than the second?
18. You have n stairs. You can take either 1, 2 or 3 steps. How many ways are there to climb the stairs?
19. You have two arrays A, B of length n. An action is to take two indices 0 < i, j < n, swap the values in A[i] and B[j].
After k such actions. How many unique numbers are present in A?
20. Write a function max_average(a) that takes an array of integers 'a' as an input and output the largest average of
any subarray of 'a'


1. In a game, you and two others each think of a positive integer. You win if you pick the smallest number that
nobody else guesses. (If all three guess the same number, nobody wins). What is the optimal strategy?
2. We play a game. You are given a 6-sided fair dice. Say the outcome is X. You may choose to receive X dollars, or
re-roll once. If you re-roll, you must take the outcome of the re-roll (no going back to the first roll). What is your
strategy and expected value of this game?
3. Suppose you draw integer N uniformly between 1-1000. Then draw 10 integers uniformly from 1-N. Suppose you
are shown the 10 numbers, and the game is you win $1 if you guess N right and lose $1 if you guess N wrong.
What would be your strategy?
4. Suppose there are a countably infinite number of boxes, labelled with integers from infinity-to-infinity. Suppose
there is a rabbit starting at position p, and at every time step it will move m boxes. The m and p is fixed but
unknown. At each time step, you could inspect 1 box to see if the rabbit is inside or not. What is your strategy to
find this rabbit?
5. You get to play three games against your father/brother: either FBF (father brother father) or BFB. You have 5%
chance to win against the brother and 50% win chance against the brother. Which of the two settings (FBF/BFB)
would you choose to maximize your chance to win 2 consecutive games?
6. How would you find the value of a game where you can reroll a dice up to 3 times?
a. Would you pay more or less, to play a game with the maximum of 3 dice?
b. Would you bet 100x the amount to play once, or bet 1x the amount to play 100 times?

7. Play a game where you play against me. It costs £1 to play and you win £1 if it lands heads. What is the
probability of me bankrupting you if you start with £2 and I start with £1.
8. Open-ended discussion on probability distribution: Triple or nothing game, start with initial capital.
▪ You can make bets with a fraction of your capital – if you win, you have a 50% chance of tripling your bet,
50% chance of it going to 0.
▪ What is your expected returns after n games?
▪ How would you optimise your returns?
▪ How should you play the game if you are risk averse? How would this differ if you were risk friendly?
▪ How would the probabilities differ?
9. In a game, you are given a 100-sided fair dice. You may pay 1 dollar to roll the dice. Say the outcome is X. You
may choose to 1) receive X dollars, and immediately stop the game; or 2) give up the outcome and re-roll. What is
your strategy to maximise expected value? (Computations are complex; you do not have to find the final
numerical value).
10. Describe an estimator for the shift in a Cauchy distribution. How fast does it converge?
11. You have $10 and must reach $100. You play a fair 50/50 (win/lose) game such that each bet has a chance of
doubling if you win, or losing all if you lose.
a. What option do you take?: you can only make bets in quantity of $10, you only make bets in quantity of
$1, or you only make bets in quantity of $0.01?
b. Now the odds are 40/60 (win/lose). Do you change your strategy?
